AI generated content characteristics and indicators:
Inconsistencies and repetition: Occasionally, AI produces nonsensical or odd sentences which can be a clear indicator of AI-generated text. Abrupt shifts in tone, style, or topic can point to AI that is struggling to maintain coherent ideas. Whereas humans often vary structure to create a better flow, repeated phrases or sentence structures can point to AI relying more on memorized patterns. Occasionally, AI produces nonsensical or odd sentences which can be a clear indicator of AI-generated text. 
Context and content: If the text seems to be unable to grasp the larger context of the writing, is missing the point entirely, or references specific details without appropriate context, it could be AI because these models lack real-world understanding and nuance. Uniqueness and personalization are hallmarks of human writing, so if the text feels basic and formulaic it might be AI-generated. And obviously, if there are blatant falsehoods or unverifiable facts, it’s either an unreliable source or AI. 
Buzzwords and grammar: Excessive use of buzzwords and jargon can be a sign of AI filling the gaps of its knowledge with generic vocabulary. This is particularly common in marketing text and instances where the larger context is more complex. And watch for perfect grammar, as even the best writers may make mistakes or intentionally break grammatical rules to emphasize an idea. 
Quick responses: As people often take time to think and respond, rapid replies could be a sign of AI. This is common in customer service platforms like chatbots. 
Placeholder text: Some AI text generation models use placeholders like "Insert name here" if it lacks sufficient information to fill in the gaps itself. The appearance of these placeholders in text used outside the model can be an indicator of automated content.  
Lack of citations: Platforms like ChatGPT can insert citations but they have been found to be unreliable, incorrectly linked, and improperly formatted. Bodies of text with these types of citations may indicate AI was used. 